'''Note:''' The next conference call is Thursday, October 21, at 3pm Eastern.

= First Teleconference: October 4 & 7 =

The first call is
* October 4, 2010, 4pm Eastern US.  '''OR'''
* October 7, 2010, 3pm Eastern US.

We covered the same topics in both calls.

== Agenda ==

# [[Objectives]]: Quick review of the three objectives.
# Introductions: what [[participants]]' interests are, and what you want to work on.
# Resources
#* [[Lists|Mailing List]]: all participants can post. 
#* This wiki: All participants can update.  High quality content will be copied to [[gmod:Main Page|main GMOD wiki]] after the event.
# Pre-hackathon work
#* [[Use Cases]]: Clearly stated, concrete problems that can't be addressed currently, and that we could make significant progress towards during the hackathon.
#** Use cases should be ''ripe for implementation.''  Ideas should be addressable with code and should not be open ended.
#* Coalescing: Participants are encouraged to put forth use cases and advocate that they be worked on, and to do this before the event even starts.
#* At least one more conference call, week of Oct 18-22.  ''Please [http://doodle.com/du2yy3g2chft2srn fill out the Doodle poll].''
#* Please think about what training,if any, you would like to have on the first day.  Are there APIs or architectures you need to learn about that will help you during the week?  We'll run needed boot camps on the first day.  If you have ideas, please add them to the [[Boot Camps]] page.
#* Update the [[participants]] page and create your own user pages.
# Mechanics of the hackathon itself
#* First day; intros, proposals, coalescing, hacking
#* Subsequent days: progress reports, hacking
#* Bring your own laptop.  If you can't let [[Dave]] know ASAP.
#* Source code [[repositories]].

We don't expect to discuss [[objectives]] in detail on this first call

== Minutes ==

First, see the agenda above.  If discussion was entirely redundant with an agenda item, then it isn't covered in the minutes.

Most time was spent on introductions:  What people worked on and what they were interested in for the hackathon.  See [[Participants]] for a summary.  Almost everyone made one teleconference or the other.

'''Should people bring their own laptops?'''  Yes.  NESCent will provide wireless networking, table space, and power.  If you can't bring a laptop let [[Dave]] know as soon as possible.

'''Which open source [[repositories]] will we use?'''  We don't specify which repository that you will use. We do however, require that you use a repository.  Keeping things just on your laptop and passing them back and forth on USB sticks is not enough.  [[Hilmar]] suggested that we nail down repositories we want to use ahead of time, and then assemble an instruction page (probably this page) on where repositories live, and how to get a hold of them. This may not always be possible We won't know what the teams and projects are until part way through Monday.  See [[Repositories]] for more information.

'''What about documentation?'''  Documentation is definitely a deliverable for the hackathon.  Several participants may opt to take this role on.  Ideally, each team would have someone who was willing to see that documentation is created for that group's work.  [[Dave]] is responsible for the hackathon wiki, and is willing to be the documentation czar overall.  Dave will work with each group to make sure that documentation is being addressed.  Once the event is done he'll also copy relevant content from the hackathon wiki to the main GMOD wiki, as well as harangue participants to address doc needs that weren't met during the hackathon.  Documentation can go anywhere, including the hackathon or main GMOD wiki, as long as it will be publicly accessible.

'''Data standards?'''  [[Weigang]] pointed out that many of us are working on common problems, for example, visualizing phylogeny.  Should we settle on a common format for the data model.  NEXUS, NeXML, PhyloXML?  Should we create a standard.  We concluded that coming up with a standard for phylogenetic data is outside the scope of this hackathon.  However, using an existing standard would greatly benefit any tools.  It also would be a good idea to talk to the NeXML and PhyloXML developers.  (NeXML, by the way, came out of a NESCent working group and was further fleshed out by the NESCent Database Interoperability Hackathon in 2009.)

'''Similar tools?'''  We'll have representatives from [[gmod:GBrowse_syn|GBrowse_syn]], Mauve and CoGE at this hackathon.  All of these are about [[Comparative Genomics Visualization]].  Other areas may have a similar abundance of riches.  In an ideal world we add features and improve integration of every tool.  In practice, this may not be possible.  One thing we could do is have someone working on each objective survey the tools that are represented at the hackathon (as well as those not at the hackathon).  This will at least give participants a better feel for the landscape.

=== Action Items Before Next Call ===

For all participants:
# Post [[Use Cases]], either to the wiki, or the mailing list (and [[Dave]] will copy them to the wiki.  [[Eric]] has already created one.  Feel free to include suggested solutions at the end of use cases.
## Once a use case is posted, comment on it, add to it, ... 
# What computing resources does NESCent need to provide for you to get your job done?  Please post these to [[Hilmar]] and [[Dave]] or (preferably) to the mailing list.
# What [[Boot Camps]] you would like to see during the event.  Post them to the [[Boot Camps]] page or send them to the mailing list.
# Someone should contact the developers of NeXML and PhyloXML to see if they have any suggestions/advice on visualizing phylogenetic data using those formats.
# Create a user page.  Do this by clicking on your email address in the top bar of the wiki, typing something, and saving it.
# [[Dave]] was going to list people's names on each of the three objective pages, based on what he believes their interests are.  ''However he quickly found this very difficult to do.'' Therefore, this action item is: Participants will list their names on the [[Objectives]] pages that they are interested in.

= Second Teleconference: October 21 =

The second call was
* October 21, 2010, 3pm Eastern US

== Agenda ==

The agenda was the [[#Action Items Before Next Call|Action Items from the first call]], plus discussion of any other issues.

== Minutes ==

First, the action items from previous meeting.

=== [[Use Cases]] ===

Several more [[Use Cases]] have been written.  [[Richard]], and [[Weigang]] have additional use cases in the works, and [[Ben]] has an extension to [[Eric]]'s.   '''You are encouraged to continue to submit use cases.'''  Also, please feel free to comment on or extend existing use cases.  Many of these will become the basis for groups that form at the hackathon.

=== Needed Computing Resources ===

==== Dataset Repository ====

''[[Jason]] inquired about setting up shared storage for datasets'' so that people can upload their datasets for everyone to see before the hackathon.  We can also use this repository during the event.  [[Eric]] and [[Ben]] provide several alignment datasets.  [[Maren]] has population diversity data and phenotype data that she will provide.

'''[[Dave]] will make inquiries with NESCent support staff to make this happen.  Dave will also create a page for people to list what datasets they are planning to upload for use/testing at the event.'''  

'''[[Participants]] with sharable datasets will upload them to the dataset repository, and describe them on the "Datasets" section of each of the [[Objectives]] pages.'''
* [[Comparative Genomics Visualization#Shared / Test Datasets |Comparative Genomics Visualization]]
* [[Phylogenetics and Tree Visualization#Shared / Test Datasets|Phylogenetics and Tree Visualization]]
* [[Diversity and Phenotypes#Shared / Test Datasets|Diversity and Phenotypes]]

==== Shared / Common Server ====

Jason's question led to another question.  ''Do we need to setup a test machine to deploy and test things on?''  We didn't come to a clear answer to this question.  

There was no one on the call dieing to have this.  [[Scott]] and [[Eric]] argued against it.  [[Dave]] pointed out that the hackathon is not about compute intensive activities like generating alignments and phylogenies, but rather about visualizing them.

Many possibilities were discussed:
* Get an Amazon EC2 instance up for the week.
** If we did this we would need to know system requirements in terms of storage, memory, and CPUs well ahead of time.
** [[Eric]] pointed out that if it's easy and cheap to set one of these up, then there is little harm in doing so.
** We might be able to use a [[gmod:VMware|GMOD VMware]] image from the [[#2010 GMOD Summer School - Americas|2010 GMOD Summer School - Americas]] or from recent work [[Scott]] is doing, to set up the EC2 server.
* We could also just make a [[gmod:VMware|GMOD VMware]] image available for people to run on their own laptops.
* Another option is using the shared compute cluster at Duke.

Which, if any, of these options would be most useful depends on what we want to do with it.

'''[[Dave]] will create a survey and poll participants for what, if any shared/common server we need to setup.'''

=== [[Boot Camps]] ===

Several [[Boot Camps]] have now been proposed.  Boot camps can last anywhere from 15 minutes to an hour, although shorter is better.  The possibility of a boot camp on [[Repositories|Git]] was raised.

'''[[Participants]] will add any boot camps they would like to see to the [[Boot Camps]] page, ''and'' indicate which boot camps you are interested in.  [[Participants#Organizing Committee|Organizers]] will then find instructors for boot camps with sufficient demand. In order to give instructors enough time to prepare, please do this no later than Monday, October 25.'''

Boot camps proposed after this deadline might still be possible, if they can be done on an impromptu basis.

=== NeXML / PhyloXML ===

'''[[Hilmar]] volunteered to contact the developers of NeXML and PhyloXML''' to see if they have any suggestions/advice on visualizing phylogenetic data using those formats, and what if any implementations have already been built.  Hilmar was familiar with the [http://www.phylosoft.org/archaeopteryx/ Archaeopteryx viewer] built on PhyloXML.

=== User Pages ===

'''If you haven't already done so, please create a ''user page.'''''  Do this by clicking on your email address in the top bar of the wiki, typing something, and saving it.

<div class="indent">
''[[Dave]] did not talk about this, but he's also created shortcuts (redirect pages in MediaWiki parlance) for each user page that has been created.  This means you can now link to a participant's page by just putting their first name in brackets in the text.  For example,''
  <nowiki>[[Terry]] works for Cornell from North Carolina, while [[Rob]] and [[Jonathan]]
 (or should that say [[Duke]]?) work for Cornell from Oregon.  [[Andrew H]] lives 
 in California and works for Colorado (I think), but [[Andrew T]] lives ''and'' 
 works in California, just to be different.</nowiki>
Becomes:
: [[Terry]] works for Cornell from North Carolina, while [[Rob]] and [[Jonathan]] (or should that say [[Duke]]?) work for Cornell from Oregon.  [[Andrew H]] lives in California and works for Colorado (I think), but [[Andrew T]] lives ''and'' works in California, just to be different.
</div>

=== List Your Interests ===

There are three broad [[Objectives]] for this hackathon.  '''Please add your name to the list of interested participants for any objective you might want to work on at the hackathon.'''  This is ''not'' a commitment to work on that objective during the hackathon.  It merely gives other participants an idea of who is also interested in what they are interested in.

* [[Comparative Genomics Visualization#Interested Participants|Comparative Genomics Visualization]]
* [[Phylogenetics and Tree Visualization#INTERESTED PARTICIPANTS|Phylogenetics and Tree Visualization]]
* [[Diversity and Phenotypes#Interested Participants|Diversity and Phenotypes]]

=== Other Discussion ===

==== Open Source and Public ====

We discussed the immediate open source requirement for the hackathon.  Any code that is worked no during the event must be made immediately available in public source code repository and have an open source license.  This is a requirement for NESCent sponsorship of the event and has been clearly stated at several points in the process.

This means that if your code is not in this state when the hackathon starts, then we can't work on at the hackathon.  However, you are free to contribute code from a non-public repository during the event, as long as it becomes a part of a public repository during the event.  For example, CoGE is not currently in a public repository, but it has an open source license and the only obstacles are logistical.  It would be acceptable to contribute code from CoGE to, say, [[gmod:GBrowse_syn|GBrowse_syn]] during the event, as GBrowse_syn does have a public repository and an open source license.

==== Next Call ====

We don't think we will need a third call, however, if at the end of next week, it looks like we have a lot of open issues that would benefit from a discussion, then we will schedule a third and final cal during the week before the event.

== Action Items ==

# [[Participants]] are encouraged to continue to submit use cases.  Also, please feel free to comment on or extend existing use cases.  Many of these will become the basis for groups that form at the hackathon.
# [[Dave]] will make inquiries with NESCent support staff to create a space for shared datasets.  Dave will also create a page for people to list what datasets they are planning to upload for use/testing at the event. 
# [[Participants]] with sharable datasets will upload them to the dataset repository, and describe them on the "Datasets" section of each of the [[Objectives]] pages:
#* [[Comparative Genomics Visualization#Shared / Test Datasets |Comparative Genomics Visualization]]
#* [[Phylogenetics and Tree Visualization#Shared / Test Datasets|Phylogenetics and Tree Visualization]]
#* [[Diversity and Phenotypes#Shared / Test Datasets|Diversity and Phenotypes]]
# [[Dave]] will create a survey and poll participants for what, if any shared/common server we need to setup.
# [[Participants]] will add any boot camps they would like to see to the [[Boot Camps]] page, ''and'' indicate which boot camps you are interested in.  [[Participants#Organizing Committee|Organizers]] will then find instructors for boot camps with sufficient demand. '''In order to give instructors enough time to prepare, please do this no later than Monday, October 25.'''
# [[Hilmar]] will contact the developers of NeXML and PhyloXML to see if they have any suggestions/advice on visualizing phylogenetic data using those formats, and what if any implementations have already been built.
# If you haven't already done so, please create a ''user page.''  Do this by clicking on your email address in the top bar of the wiki, typing something, and saving it.
# Please add your name to the list of interested participants for any objective you might want to work on at the hackathon.  This is ''not'' a commitment to work on that objective during the hackathon.  It merely gives other participants an idea of who is also interested in what they are interested in.
#* [[Comparative Genomics Visualization#Interested Participants|Comparative Genomics Visualization]]
#* [[Phylogenetics and Tree Visualization#INTERESTED PARTICIPANTS|Phylogenetics and Tree Visualization]]
#* [[Diversity and Phenotypes#Interested Participants|Diversity and Phenotypes]]