---
title: Conference Calls
---

**Note:** The next conference call is Thursday, October 21, at 3pm
Eastern.

First Teleconference: October 4 & 7
===================================

The first call is

-   October 4, 2010, 4pm Eastern US. **OR**
-   October 7, 2010, 3pm Eastern US.

We covered the same topics in both calls.

Agenda
------

1.  [Objectives](Objectives "wikilink"): Quick review of the
    three objectives.
2.  Introductions: what [participants](participants "wikilink")'
    interests are, and what you want to work on.
3.  Resources
    -   [Mailing List](Lists "wikilink"): all participants can post.
    -   This wiki: All participants can update. High quality content
        will be copied to [main GMOD wiki](gmod:Main_Page "wikilink")
        after the event.

4.  Pre-hackathon work
    -   [Use Cases](Use_Cases "wikilink"): Clearly stated, concrete
        problems that can't be addressed currently, and that we could
        make significant progress towards during the hackathon.
        -   Use cases should be *ripe for implementation.* Ideas should
            be addressable with code and should not be open ended.
    -   Coalescing: Participants are encouraged to put forth use cases
        and advocate that they be worked on, and to do this before the
        event even starts.
    -   At least one more conference call, week of Oct 18-22. *Please
        [fill out the Doodle poll](http://doodle.com/du2yy3g2chft2srn).*
    -   Please think about what training,if any, you would like to have
        on the first day. Are there APIs or architectures you need to
        learn about that will help you during the week? We'll run needed
        boot camps on the first day. If you have ideas, please add them
        to the [Boot Camps](Boot_Camps "wikilink") page.
    -   Update the [participants](participants "wikilink") page and
        create your own user pages.

5.  Mechanics of the hackathon itself
    -   First day; intros, proposals, coalescing, hacking
    -   Subsequent days: progress reports, hacking
    -   Bring your own laptop. If you can't let [Dave](Dave "wikilink")
        know ASAP.
    -   Source code [repositories](repositories "wikilink").

We don't expect to discuss [objectives](objectives "wikilink") in detail
on this first call

Minutes
-------

First, see the agenda above. If discussion was entirely redundant with
an agenda item, then it isn't covered in the minutes.

Most time was spent on introductions: What people worked on and what
they were interested in for the hackathon. See
[Participants](Participants "wikilink") for a summary. Almost everyone
made one teleconference or the other.

**Should people bring their own laptops?** Yes. NESCent will provide
wireless networking, table space, and power. If you can't bring a laptop
let [Dave](Dave "wikilink") know as soon as possible.

**Which open source [repositories](repositories "wikilink") will we
use?** We don't specify which repository that you will use. We do
however, require that you use a repository. Keeping things just on your
laptop and passing them back and forth on USB sticks is not enough.
[Hilmar](Hilmar "wikilink") suggested that we nail down repositories we
want to use ahead of time, and then assemble an instruction page
(probably this page) on where repositories live, and how to get a hold
of them. This may not always be possible We won't know what the teams
and projects are until part way through Monday. See
[Repositories](Repositories "wikilink") for more information.

**What about documentation?** Documentation is definitely a deliverable
for the hackathon. Several participants may opt to take this role on.
Ideally, each team would have someone who was willing to see that
documentation is created for that group's work. [Dave](Dave "wikilink")
is responsible for the hackathon wiki, and is willing to be the
documentation czar overall. Dave will work with each group to make sure
that documentation is being addressed. Once the event is done he'll also
copy relevant content from the hackathon wiki to the main GMOD wiki, as
well as harangue participants to address doc needs that weren't met
during the hackathon. Documentation can go anywhere, including the
hackathon or main GMOD wiki, as long as it will be publicly accessible.

**Data standards?** [Weigang](Weigang "wikilink") pointed out that many
of us are working on common problems, for example, visualizing
phylogeny. Should we settle on a common format for the data model.
NEXUS, NeXML, PhyloXML? Should we create a standard. We concluded that
coming up with a standard for phylogenetic data is outside the scope of
this hackathon. However, using an existing standard would greatly
benefit any tools. It also would be a good idea to talk to the NeXML and
PhyloXML developers. (NeXML, by the way, came out of a NESCent working
group and was further fleshed out by the NESCent Database
Interoperability Hackathon in 2009.)

**Similar tools?** We'll have representatives from
[GBrowse\_syn](gmod:GBrowse_syn "wikilink"), Mauve and CoGE at this
hackathon. All of these are about [Comparative Genomics
Visualization](Comparative_Genomics_Visualization "wikilink"). Other
areas may have a similar abundance of riches. In an ideal world we add
features and improve integration of every tool. In practice, this may
not be possible. One thing we could do is have someone working on each
objective survey the tools that are represented at the hackathon (as
well as those not at the hackathon). This will at least give
participants a better feel for the landscape.

### Action Items Before Next Call

For all participants:

1.  Post [Use Cases](Use_Cases "wikilink"), either to the wiki, or the
    mailing list (and [Dave](Dave "wikilink") will copy them to
    the wiki. [Eric](Eric "wikilink") has already created one. Feel free
    to include suggested solutions at the end of use cases.
    1.  Once a use case is posted, comment on it, add to it, ...

2.  What computing resources does NESCent need to provide for you to get
    your job done? Please post these to [Hilmar](Hilmar "wikilink") and
    [Dave](Dave "wikilink") or (preferably) to the mailing list.
3.  What [Boot Camps](Boot_Camps "wikilink") you would like to see
    during the event. Post them to the [Boot
    Camps](Boot_Camps "wikilink") page or send them to the mailing list.
4.  Someone should contact the developers of NeXML and PhyloXML to see
    if they have any suggestions/advice on visualizing phylogenetic data
    using those formats.
5.  Create a user page. Do this by clicking on your email address in the
    top bar of the wiki, typing something, and saving it.
6.  [Dave](Dave "wikilink") was going to list people's names on each of
    the three objective pages, based on what he believes their
    interests are. *However he quickly found this very difficult to do.*
    Therefore, this action item is: Participants will list their names
    on the [Objectives](Objectives "wikilink") pages that they are
    interested in.

Second Teleconference: October 21
=================================

The second call was

-   October 21, 2010, 3pm Eastern US

Agenda
------

The agenda was the [Action Items from the first
call](#Action_Items_Before_Next_Call "wikilink"), plus discussion of any
other issues.

Minutes
-------

First, the action ttems from previous meeting.

### [Use Cases](Use_Cases "wikilink")

Several more [Use Cases](Use_Cases "wikilink") have been written.
[Richard](Richard "wikilink"), and [Weigang](Weigang "wikilink") have
additional use cases in the works, and [Ben](Ben "wikilink") has an
extension to [Eric](Eric "wikilink")'s. **You are encouraged to continue
to submit use cases.** Also, please feel free to comment on or extend
existing use cases. Many of these will become the basis for groups that
form at the hackathon.

### Needed Computing Resources

*[Jason](Jason "wikilink") inquired about setting up shared storage for
datasets* so that people can upload their datasets for everyone to see
before the hackathon. We can also use this repository during the event.

**[Dave](Dave "wikilink") will make inquiries with NESCent support staff
to make this happen.**

Jason's question led to another question. *Do we need to setup a test
machine to deploy and test things on?*

### [Boot Camps](Boot_Camps "wikilink")

1.  What [Boot Camps](Boot_Camps "wikilink") you would like to see
    during the event. Post them to the [Boot
    Camps](Boot_Camps "wikilink") page or send them to the mailing list.

### NeXML / PhyloXML

1.  Someone should contact the developers of NeXML and PhyloXML to see
    if they have any suggestions/advice on visualizing phylogenetic data
    using those formats.

### User Pages

1.  Create a user page. Do this by clicking on your email address in the
    top bar of the wiki, typing something, and saving it.

### List Your Interests

1.  [Dave](Dave "wikilink") was going to list people's names on each of
    the three objective pages, based on what he believes their
    interests are. *However he quickly found this very difficult to do.*
    Therefore, this action item is: Participants will list their names
    on the [Objectives](Objectives "wikilink") pages that they are
    interested in.

### Other Discussion
