'''Note:''' The next conference call is Thursday, October 21, at 3pm Eastern.

= First Teleconference: October 4 & 7 =

The first call is
* October 4, 2010, 4pm Eastern US.  '''OR'''
* October 7, 2010, 3pm Eastern US.

We covered the same topics in both calls.

== Agenda ==

# [[Objectives]]: Quick review of the three objectives.
# Introductions: what [[participants]]' interests are, and what you want to work on.
# Resources
#* [[Lists|Mailing List]]: all participants can post. 
#* This wiki: All participants can update.  High quality content will be copied to [[gmod:Main Page|main GMOD wiki]] after the event.
# Pre-hackathon work
#* [[Use Cases]]: Clearly stated, concrete problems that can't be addressed currently, and that we could make significant progress towards during the hackathon.
#** Use cases should be ''ripe for implementation.''  Ideas should be addressable with code and should not be open ended.
#* Coalescing: Participants are encouraged to put forth use cases and advocate that they be worked on, and to do this before the event even starts.
#* At least one more conference call, week of Oct 18-22.  ''Please [http://doodle.com/du2yy3g2chft2srn fill out the Doodle poll].''
#* Please think about what training,if any, you would like to have on the first day.  Are there APIs or architectures you need to learn about that will help you during the week?  We'll run needed boot camps on the first day.  If you have ideas, please add them to the [[Boot Camps]] page.
#* Update the [[participants]] page and create your own user pages.
# Mechanics of the hackathon itself
#* First day; intros, proposals, coalescing, hacking
#* Subsequent days: progress reports, hacking
#* Bring your own laptop.  If you can't let [[Dave]] know ASAP.
#* Source code [[repositories]].

We don't expect to discuss [[objectives]] in detail on this first call

== Minutes ==

First, see the agenda above.  If discussion was entirely redundant with an agenda item, then it isn't covered in the minutes.

Most time was spent on introductions:  What people worked on and what they were interested in for the hackathon.  See [[Participants]] for a summary.  Almost everyone made one teleconference or the other.

'''Should people bring their own laptops?'''  Yes.  NESCent will provide wireless networking, table space, and power.  If you can't bring a laptop let [[Dave]] know as soon as possible.

'''Which open source [[repositories]] will we use?'''  We don't specify which repository that you will use. We do however, require that you use a repository.  Keeping things just on your laptop and passing them back and forth on USB sticks is not enough.  [[Hilmar]] suggested that we nail down repositories we want to use ahead of time, and then assemble an instruction page (probably this page) on where repositories live, and how to get a hold of them. This may not always be possible We won't know what the teams and projects are until part way through Monday.  See [[Repositories]] for more information.

'''What about documentation?'''  Documentation is definitely a deliverable for the hackathon.  Several participants may opt to take this role on.  Ideally, each team would have someone who was willing to see that documentation is created for that group's work.  [[Dave]] is responsible for the hackathon wiki, and is willing to be the documentation czar overall.  Dave will work with each group to make sure that documentation is being addressed.  Once the event is done he'll also copy relevant content from the hackathon wiki to the main GMOD wiki, as well as harangue participants to address doc needs that weren't met during the hackathon.  Documentation can go anywhere, including the hackathon or main GMOD wiki, as long as it will be publicly accessible.

'''Data standards?'''  [[Weigang]] pointed out that many of us are working on common problems, for example, visualizing phylogeny.  Should we settle on a common format for the data model.  NEXUS, NeXML, PhyloXML?  Should we create a standard.  We concluded that coming up with a standard for phylogenetic data is outside the scope of this hackathon.  However, using an existing standard would greatly benefit any tools.  It also would be a good idea to talk to the NeXML and PhyloXML developers.  (NeXML, by the way, came out of a NESCent working group and was further fleshed out by the NESCent Database Interoperability Hackathon in 2009.)

'''Similar tools?'''  We'll have representatives from [[gmod:GBrowse_syn|GBrowse_syn]], Mauve and CoGE at this hackathon.  All of these are about [[Comparative Genomics Visualization]].  Other areas may have a similar abundance of riches.  In an ideal world we add features and improve integration of every tool.  In practice, this may not be possible.  One thing we could do is have someone working on each objective survey the tools that are represented at the hackathon (as well as those not at the hackathon).  This will at least give participants a better feel for the landscape.

=== Action Items Before Next Call ===

For all participants:
# Post [[Use Cases]], either to the wiki, or the mailing list (and [[Dave]] will copy them to the wiki.  [[Eric]] has already created one.  Feel free to include suggested solutions at the end of use cases.
## Once a use case is posted, comment on it, add to it, ... 
# What computing resources does NESCent need to provide for you to get your job done?  Please post these to [[Hilmar]] and [[Dave]] or (preferably) to the mailing list.
# What [[Boot Camps]] you would like to see during the event.  Post them to the [[Boot Camps]] page or send them to the mailing list.
# Someone should contact the developers of NeXML and PhyloXML to see if they have any suggestions/advice on visualizing phylogenetic data using those formats.
# Create a user page.  Do this by clicking on your email address in the top bar of the wiki, typing something, and saving it.
# [[Dave]] was going to list people's names on each of the three objective pages, based on what he believes their interests are.  ''However he quickly found this very difficult to do.'' Therefore, this action item is: Participants will list their names on the [[Objectives]] pages that they are interested in.

= Second Teleconference: October 21 =

The second call was
* October 21, 2010, 3pm Eastern US

== Agenda ==

The agenda was the [[#Action Items Before Next Call|Action Items from the first call]], plus discussion of any other issues.

== Minutes ==

Minutes will appear here shortly.