---
title: Diversity and Phenotypes
---

GMOD's capabilities in managing phenotype and natural diversity data is
scattered across partially redundant and outdated modules, does not
support modern ontology-based entity-quality data, and lacks a
web-interface. The sophisticated phenotype annotation tools that do
exist cannot interface with Chado, GMOD's central relational data model.
Yet, phenotypic and genetic diversity data are central to many
evolutionary research questions.

A [Natural Diversity Module
initiative](gmod:Chado_Natural_Diversity_Module_Working_Group "wikilink")
to address at least the deficiencies within Chado has already formed
earlier this year. Several key developers (one of the original
developers of the module, and the developer of Phenex, a phenotype
curation tool) are already local to NESCent, and so the hackathon
provides a unique opportunity to review and refine the natural diversity
data model face-to-face, and to integrate it with an updated and
reconciled phenotype module. A recently reported prototype of a Chado
data adapter for Phenote, GMODs phenotype annotation tool, could be
generalized to become the data persistence interface for such data.

Aside from the data model deficiencies, the
[ANISEED](http://aniseed-ibdm.univ-mrs.fr/) project has started efforts
to generalize its sophisticated atlas/image-based web interface for
phenotype data, and to make it operate on top of Chado. The hackathon
could harness this synergy to help this effort leap forward, which could
ultimately provide GMOD with the currently missing web-interface for
such data.

<Category:Objectives>
