---
title: Information
---

The travel, transportation, and hotel arrangements are also available as
a [downloadable PDF file](Media:Travel_Arrangements.pdf "wikilink").

Meeting
-------

### Agenda

-   [Original agenda](Media:Agenda.pdf "wikilink") as a PDF download
-   [Agenda](Agenda "wikilink") with latest updates

### Resources

NESCent is equipped with a complete set of IT and office resources to
support the needs of meeting participants. They are explained in detail
in the [IT & General Help article](Help:Contents "wikilink").

In short, all meeting and break-out spaces are covered by wireless
network. Wired network jacks are available in the conference rooms and
at the back of the large meeting space too. We have a system
administrator on staff to assist you ad-hoc with computer problems.
Video projectors and a loaner laptop for displaying Powerpoint
presentations are available. You may submit your presentation
electronically to the meeting organizer either by email, or using a USB
memory stick (your own or supplied by us).

In terms of office resources, there are fully networked printers you can
use, as well as a copier that doubles as a scanner. For high-end
printing and finishing needs, a FedexKinko's is right across the street.

Hotel Arrangements
------------------

You will be staying at the
\[<http://www.millenniumhotels.com/MCIL.nsf/LU_HOTELDOC/113>$$HotelDescription?OpenDocument
Millennium Hotel\] in Durham, (2800 Campus Walk Avenue, Durham, NC
27705, telephone: (919) 383-8575).

Reservations have been made for the whole meeting period. Check in time
at the Millennium Hotel is 3:00 p.m. and check out time is noon. Please
contact Jeff Sturkey at NESCent via email [Jeff
Sturkey](mailto:jsturkey@nescent.org) or 919-668-4545 to make any
changes to your room reservations or ask for information about any other
issue, such as reimbursement. If you are bringing a roommate, there will
be an additional charge of $20.00 per person per night payable to the
Millennium Hotel.

Travel Arrangements
-------------------

Please contact our travel agent, [Mark
Eide](mailto:mark@galegentrytravel.com), as soon as possible to arrange
your airline travel. Please note that as a condition of your invitation
to participate in NESCent meetings, we ask that your travel plans be
ticketed no less than 21 days in advance of your meeting. In addition,
our travel agent has been instructed to search for lower-cost airfares
for all attendees.

Your early selection of flights will provide you the widest choices. In
addition, please note that the National Science Foundation requires that
we use U.S. air carriers and coach class.

Your airfare charge will be directly billed to NESCent. Although we have
provided the travel agency with your names, we ask that you contact
Mark. His contact information is:

    Mark Eide (although other agents at the firm can assist you as well)
    Gentry Travel
    Telephone:  919-787-2511  ext. 215  
    Toll Free Telephone:  800-633-9350
    Email: mark@galegentrytravel.com

Transportation
--------------

### Arrival at Raleigh/Durham International Airport (RDU)

We suggest using the Millennium Hotel airport shuttle service. This
shuttle will be directly billed to NESCent. When you arrive at RDU,
please call the Millennium Hotel via the display of hotels at the
Baggage claim area. You may pick up the receiver and push the
appropriate button for the Millennium Hotel, or you may call the
Millennium at (919) 383-8575. Please tell the attendant that you have a
reservation and wish to be picked up at the RDU airport. The hotel is
approximately 10 minutes away. Any ground transportation questions
arising immediately after arrival can be answered at the RDU Information
Desk near the Baggage Claim area.

### Getting to NESCent

We will also coordinate shuttle service between the hotel and the
NESCent office for your meeting.

Meal Arrangements
-----------------

NESCent-sponsored meeting participants are eligible for meal
reimbursement. NESCent bases these amounts on the
\[<http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/gsa/ep/contentView.do?programId=9704&channelId>=-15943&ooid=16365&contentId=17943&pageTypeId=8203&contentType=GSA\_BASIC&programPage=%252Fep%252Fprogram%252FgsaBasic.jsp&P=MTT
GSA Federal per diem rates\]. Individual reimbursement amounts will vary
depending on the length of the meeting. Please review the information
specific to your meeting for the exact amount of eligible reimbursement.

Non-U.S. Citizens
-----------------

We would appreciate your letting us know if you are not a US citizen. If
you will be arriving from outside the United States, we will provide you
with a formal letter of invitation briefly outlining the purpose of your
visit. This letter may be required during your travel to the US, and we
encourage you to keep a copy with you. Please send via email your office
mailing address so that we can send the formal letter of invitation. For
all non-US citizens we will need to make a copy of your passport and
I-94 and/or visa waiver during your visit.

IT Support
----------

For information about the IT and audio-visual support at NESCent, please
see <Help:Contents>.

Contact
-------

### For Logistical Questions

For questions directly pertaining to NESCent arrangements, contact:

    Jeff Sturkey                        Telephone:  919-668-4545
    Logistics Coordinator                   Fax:             919-668-9192
    National Evolutionary Synthesis Center      Email:         jsturkey@nescent.org
    2024 West Main Street, Suite A200
    Durham, NC 27705

### For Other Questions

If you have any other questions regarding your visit, please contact
[Jeff Sturkey](mailto:jsturkey@nescent.org).

<Category:Help>
