== Hackathon Best Practices ==

NESCent hosts several hackathons a year, and hosting hackathons is one of NESCent's core functions. This page describes some best practices for having a successful hackathon.

# The Key Idea: This is not a workshop or a symposium: It's a group that is gathered to work together over to make real progress on a specific project in a limited amount of time.
# Many hackathons have members that are veterans of previous NESCent or other hackathons. Leverage their experience to help with this group.
# Brief introductions of each person and their research perspective on the goals of the group are useful, but strongly resist the (natural) tendency for people to give talks about their research.  Keep in mind that nearly everyone in the group is simultaneously an expert in some issues and a neophyte in other issues.
# Have a clear but flexible agenda for the hackathon in advance, and give clear instructions to participants about what you want them to do.
# Successful hackathons tend towards firm, organized, but flexible leadership. You want to take advantage of the diverse viewpoints/strengths of the group, let new ideas emerge and be explored, but keep the group focused on the project goals and on making progress towards that.
# Identify related objectives within the larger project goal, so that interconnected subsets of people can work on these somewhat independently (with communication among subgroups). Usually these subgroups emerge naturally, but you may need to help this along. Alternating between large group and subgroup meetings typically works pretty well.
# Have fun.