Organizers have identified the following broad themes for focusing work at the event.  Before and at the hackathon, the participants will refine and distill these and other options into concrete implementation targets.  The participants will develop criteria for prioritization, such as maturity of a target for implementation, availability of test data, and potential for completing or making significant progress towards the target during the hackathon. Further ideas and discussion topics can be found on the [[gmod:GMOD_Evo_Hackathon_Proposal_Supplemental_Information | Supplemental Information ]] page.

== Viewing tools for comparative genomics data ==

[[gmod:GBrowse_syn|GBrowse_syn]] is a popular GMOD component for viewing comparative genomics data, particularly for viewing synteny between genomes.  It does not currently support the [[gmod:Next Generation Sequencing|next-generation sequencing (NGS) data]] increasingly available for comparative genomics and emerging model systems. Support for NGS data was identified by the EMS working group as a high priority.

In particular, GBrowse_syn lacks support for the [http://samtools.sourceforge.net/ Sequence Alignment Format (SAM)], its mechanism of storing genome comparisons does not scale beyond a few organisms,  and the means for tracking the necessary alignment metadata in [[gmod:Chado|Chado]] are insufficient.

In addition to filling those gaps, GBrowse_syn would also particularly stand to benefit from the event by gaining a more sustainable developer base.

== Visualization of phylogenetic data and trees ==

The [[gmod:GMOD Components|GMOD toolkit]] at present does not include web-based alignment viewers, nor can the increasingly popular [[gmod:JBrowse|JBrowse]] genome browser (the designated successor of [[gmod:GBrowse|GBrowse]]) display multiple sequence alignments. GMOD also lacks a phylogenetic tree widget.

Implementing these from scratch would be far beyond a suitable hackathon target. However, [http://solgenomics.net SGN] has a relatively mature [http://solgenomics.net/tools/align_viewer/ web-based multiple alignment and tree browser] that could be extracted from SGN's codebase and transformed into a GMOD component, an add-on for JBrowse.  Current Java-based tree viewers (such as [http://www.phylosoft.org/atv/ Archaeopteryx] or [http://www.phylowidget.org PhyloWidget]) could be used as the basis for a JavaScript-based tree viewer (or an applet that can be controlled through JavaScript) that integrates with JBrowse.

== Population Diversity and Phenotype support ==

GMOD's capabilities in managing phenotype and natural diversity data is scattered across partially redundant and outdated modules, does not support modern ontology-based entity-quality data, and lacks a web-interface. The sophisticated phenotype annotation tools that do exist cannot interface with Chado, GMOD's central relational data model. Yet, phenotypic and genetic diversity data are central to many evolutionary research questions.

A [[gmod:Chado Natural Diversity Module Working Group|Natural Diversity Module initiative]]  to address at least the deficiencies within Chado has already formed earlier this year. Several key developers (one of the original developers of the module, and the developer of Phenex, a phenotype curation tool) are already local to NESCent, and so the hackathon provides a unique opportunity to review and refine the natural diversity data model face-to-face, and to integrate it with an updated and reconciled phenotype module.  A recently reported prototype of a Chado data adapter for Phenote, GMODs phenotype annotation tool, could be generalized to become the data persistence interface for such data.

Aside from the data model deficiencies, the [http://aniseed-ibdm.univ-mrs.fr/ ANISEED] project has started efforts to generalize its sophisticated atlas/image-based web interface for phenotype data, and to make it operate on top of Chado. The hackathon could harness this synergy to help this effort leap forward, which could ultimately provide GMOD with the currently missing web-interface for such data.