This action item came out of the pre-hackathon [[Conference Calls]]:

: [[Hilmar]] will contact the developers of NeXML and PhyloXML to see if they have any suggestions/advice on visualizing phylogenetic data using those formats, and what if any implementations have already been built.

== PhyloXML ==

From: Christian M Zmasek <czmasek@sanfordburnham.org><br />
Date: October 21, 2010 7:38:09 PM EDT

Hi, Hilmar and Rutger:

I am not entirely clear what you mean by phylogenetic data, but I guess you mean data (potentially outside of the domain of "evolutionary biology") associated with tree nodes and branches.

In any case, I think this is quite a challenging problem, especially for user defined data types, such as by using phyloXML's property element (http://www.phyloxml.org/documentation/version_1.10/phyloxml.xsd.html#h158033242) and NeXML's triplets.

Clearly, it is straightforward to display this data as text (upon node or branch clicking or mouse-over, for example); by way of example "Km=0.1mM" (*) in an application of phylogenetics in a study of enzyme kinetics.

On the other hand, most of such associated data might be better displayed in "graphical" form. For example, by mapping the Michaelis constant Km to a range of colors. For this, we had the idea of something like a "stylesheet" which, for example, says to represent gene duplications as red circles, or provides a formula to convert Km values to RGB colors. This is clearly not very well thought out and just at the "idea" stage. (Cytoscape provides some functionality like that, e.g. mapping of gene expression values to graph node colors).

(*) in phyloXML:
    <property datatype="xsd:decimal" ref="Km" applies_to="node" unit="mM">
    0.1
    </property>


Chris

== NeXML == 

From: Rutger Vos <rutgeraldo@gmail.com><br />
Date: October 22, 2010 5:34:38 AM EDT

Hi Chris and Hilmar,

I agree with Chris that the main issue is how to visualize
annotations, and whether a "visual language" could be devised/agreed
upon to deal with at least a subset of those annotations. In the
context of this conversation we've been having about a controlled
vocabulary of biological events on trees, you can imagine that some of
these events would have fairly obvious and intuitive icons (e.g. maybe
an extinction could be visualized as a little cross (as ToLWeb does))
or colour mappings.

Rutger

== Hilmar's Comments ==

I was assuming at first that phylogenetic data meant the character matrix (or alignment) data underlying trees, but interestingly both Chris and Rutger interpreted this to mean data with which to decorate a tree or an alignment, and then I wasn't actually sure anymore myself what the intended meaning was. Whoever gave rise to that, any thoughts?